- and we're live hello Paul
hey it's happening how are you sir very
well who are you and you have newfangled
mushroom hats
these are surprisingly durable so thing
about these mushroom hats there that you
would think oh it's gonna fall apart in
your fingers but no it's got like it's
quite pliable it's quite pliable and
known as German felt and this allowed
the Iceman
Otzi to be able to travel into the Alps
it was a firestarter mushroom really and
this were actually revolutionized
warfare because it helped Flynn spark
guns ignite the gunpowder really so on
samba do and it comes from a birch
polypore mushroom which is a subject of
much of our research these days now when
this grows in the wild what does it look
like because this is you've fashioned it
into this hat well I had someone fashion
some ladies it looks like yeah some
ladies in Transylvania yeah yeah it's
called foamies women Terios it allowed
for the portability of fire there's no
doubt we all came from africa we went
north and we discovered winter this loud
for fire to be carried for days and so
your clan was absolutely dependent on
fire starting in order to survive the
winter and this mushroom allowed and
enabled people to survive Wow it's very
light is it edible excellent question
Hippocrates first described it in 400
BCE as a tree as an anti-inflammatory so
in teas yes but you know that's very
very tough when you put it in ash and
water it delaminates
into mycelium and so some ladies in
transylvania still make these and as a
fabric that you pull and that mushroom
there will become one hat or maybe more
because it just keeps on the elongated
and it's made of mycelium and so
explaining the process how would you
take this slab of mushroom that i have
that looks like sort of like an enormous
Hershey's kiss and then you would put
that in water with ash from a fire from
a fire and what I asked was that highly
alkaline and then it helps it separate
it begins to delaminate and literally
you start pulling us and it's a fabric
that you keep on
ah and so it's called German Felton it's
been used for literally thousands of
years and beekeepers actually use this
for smoking hives it we could but it
would be kind of it would be kind of
bizarre we could let's flick a bit and
you'd burn up one of these things here
is that it's just amazing how much this
is a fuse and one spark on this you know
can ignite this entire thing over 15 20
minutes really yeah
and so beekeepers use it for smoke so if
I lit this right now with this lighter
not that the the powder was so you this
the ash the powder powder - and then the
water and then how does it flatten out
and become with it because it soaks up
and mycelium makes mushrooms mushrooms
make mycelium and so when you soak this
and then it gets soggy and then it
tenderizes and then you start breaking
it and pulling it apart this is actually
part we first discovered because our
ancestors notice when insects were born
does much yeah is that the unprocessed
version of it this is so this is what
it's like on one side well it's just
made it into a little toe table thing
but it's the same thing basically
so is this stitched together how do they
make it like this actually using wood a
wood glue and but that's all the natural
colors nothing's been added to it and
these and so they just pull it apart
pull it apart and again flat yeah I
really want to make a coat I'm reading
this my goal is that have somebody make
a coat would it tear easily it's an
amazingly strong tensile fabric
it's mmm it absorbs water but you have
to be careful someone smoking a joint or
near a fire or smoking a cigarette it
happened to me I got a big hole in one
of mine and I was smelling the smoke in
my head my head was on fire more than
once how many folks are out there
wearing mushroom hats these days just a
few hundred and we've been trying to
actually keep the industry alive by just
inundating the there was a like 25 or 30
of these hat makers and in Transylvania
um 10 15 years ago then it shrunk down
to four or five and a friend of mine
David Summerlin visit
and said Paul this this hat making
technologies on the verge of extinction
and so we just sort of inundated them
with orders in order to build the
industry alive so how could someone
contribute to that if they wanted to if
people are listening to this how could
they buy one of these hats well if you
go to my facebook comm slash Paul
Stamets I think his name is Mako
actually you know squatted on my page to
sell the hats and more power to them so
okay yeah cool interesting but this had
this mushroom has figuring they'd be
very prominently important for saving
bees and that's where our research has
been astonishingly interesting lately
where is that thing that you get brought
in what is that this is this is a so to
get some context to this you know I
think shamanistic aliy mushrooms plants
animals become important because of
plurality of multiplicity of benefits
this is one example not only
revolutionized warfare not only allow
for the portability of fire for us to
save ourselves in the coldness and you
know we migrated into Europe from Africa
not only did beekeepers users for
smoking but fly fishermen use it also
are drawing flies but we have found that
this mushroom is extremely powerful for
reducing viruses that harm bees and and
we are it's been described today in CNN
be insect apocalypse 40% of B of insects
or under threat this just came out and
this is an all-hands-on-deck moment but
I'm optimistic because I think we can
find solutions in nature so with my
colleagues and when I was here before I
talked to my work with a bio shield our
defense program and these would conks
are very strong and antiviral properties
against flu viruses and herpes etc I use
these ideas and actually had a waking
dream and I realized that the bees were
being infected by mites with viruses and
the deform wind virus in particular is
the worst virus and so I contacted
Washington State University we started
doing some research and
really really happy because I love
skeptics who become my supporters we
published in nature only 7% of the
articles submitted the nature get
published the nature of publication
ecosystem to this day our articles on
top 1% of all articles ever published in
nature publication ecosystem now that's
phenomenal because that's the most
credible scientific journal in the world
there at that extracts of polypore
mushroom mycelium reduced viruses and
honey bees and the this mushroom the
Amadou reduces the deformed wing virus
800 times the one with one treatment in
and then the reishi mushroom mycelium
reduces the lake sinai virus more than
45,000 to one now these are Woodcock's
at growing trees and we all grew up with
Winnie the Pooh but no one made the
connection before me apparently that
bees are attracted to rotted wood
because of a mean illogical benefit so
Amadou and reishi mushrooms we found
that we published in this article that
high significance and I think the reason
why this article is not top 1% of all
nature articles is that I've been able
to present the theory with proof now
that a natural product can have a
broader Bioshield of benefits than a
pure pharmaceutical up to this time
there's been no agents to produce
viruses and bees now the deform wing
virus is being vectored by the varroa
mite came in 1984 and injects viruses
into bees and so like a dirty syringe
and these viruses debilitate the bees
and sort in there with their ability to
fly look at that poor bumble bee oh wow
that's crazy I mean that that is so sad
because that nut will be can't fly
now bees can pollinate up to a thousand
flowers a day and the average flight
time of like honeybees was used to be
nine days a thousand flowers a day every
almond you eat was visited by a bee so
one bee can pollinate a thousand flowers
a day nine days was our pollination
flight time now it's been resorted to
for days so we lost by 50% and the CNN
article that we just showed in China now
their hand
pollinating flowers you know with
paintbrushes paint of apples you know so
apples cherries almonds strawberry
because of those bees the absence of B
so it's really it's all hands on deck
this is you know I'm really optimistic
about the future because we have
solutions in nature that we can now
amplify and be able to deploy and so one
of my inventions and I'm giving these
away for the ten thousand of these for
free I've come up with a citizen
scientist Beefeater
that puts these extracts into sugar
water and we have a sign-up sheet up the
salt is for free says fungi calm slash
bees and we're going to give away the
first 10,000 of these and this basically
allows citizen scientists to help wild
bees because while bees will give about
80 percent of the benefits if you scroll
down there's a really we just got the
CGI done if you go all the way down and
then click on the click on that video
and we just so here's the Beefeater and
this is available on YouTube folks it
says be mushroomed feeder be mushroomed
all one word and then feeder yeah and
now watch that's the bees visiting and
they're taking the sugar water look how
much they're sucking out of it those
little greedy bastards yeah and that's
crazy how it goes away so quickly and
this is a maze and bees are better at
navigating mazes and so you can see the
bees going in and out my grandson who
was afraid of bees was really fascinated
by this so I got him to do this and so
these are something that we're going to
make these available all over and I know
I'm gonna create vertical gardens in in
apartment buildings get bees we fly up
200 feet you create ladders then
ecological ladders and then this is
where the citizen scientists all over
the world can take action to be able to
help bees from collapsing and then you
station these in neighborhoods for
bumble bees for other types of bees and
then we have it with a Wi-Fi enabled
device with solar panels and then we
upload into the cloud all this data
about bee pollination visits
so I'm create a metric on the baseline
of bee pollination services so if you
see a bees that are declining and
suddenly below a baseline and Oklahoma
two years ago 84% of the bee hives died
now think if you're a cattle rancher and
you lost 84 percent of your cattle so
the idea is to help bees immune system
and the if we create baselines be
feeders upload the data and this becomes
a new form of internet because they have
Wi-Fi ability so this distributed
network as well but they where is a
Wi-Fi on that well we don't have this is
in development right now we're working
with a very very large computer company
who's making all the instrumentation and
they're into big data so we have a solar
panel going in here we have blue LED
lights the bees are attracted to blue
light and they will count the number of
bees going in and out and send bees are
only find that daytime we don't need a
battery and so the solar power will then
upload the data into the cloud
they don't create mega data sets and
then we can look in Africa Indonesia
how's it going to upload into the cloud
was it using it using LTE LTE oh so
she's like a cellular cellular system or
low frequency long range communication
systems can we help can we contribute
there's a way that this podcast can help
a lot is yes I want to enable people
with solutions that they can teach their
children the importance of natural
systems and they can take action this
seems like a great one I mean I love
this idea
I can awesome I can afford to give away
10,000 I to this computer company that
everybody knows but they asked me not to
use her name and they asked how many do
we need I said about 10 billion the
billion billion and because this but I
will do up to my capacity and then I'm
hoping that you know we're gonna give
these away for free and then eventually
we'll create networks of hubs where I
have now 40 patents on this and helping
B survive from these extracts but not in
Indonesia and not in India not in Africa
not in China not in Japan I've open
sourced it for most of the world mm-hm
I'm basically commercial I'm gonna
commercialize it so the haves can help
to have
mmm and I think a lot of people want to
help and if you and we're thinking about
different ways of doing this I'm open to
all ideas but the idea is to get maybe
one person to sponsor ten other people
they have a distributed network their
own social media community where they
end up we getting schools we will open
source the code for 3d printers so
that's really important for schools so
what the codes gonna be open sourced but
it then if somebody want to make
millions of these and sell them of
course you know I wouldn't be happy
without they have to work with me but
individually we can empower individuals
within schools to have the open-source
3d printing codes we just have to make
it trendy to have one of these in your
house like looky I'm helping I'm helping
the bees if we just did that it would
really make a big difference I know
that's a gross way to look at it but
what my grad works
my grandson kai is a perfect example he
was shuddering in fear of being coming
near to this and I'm just my friend dr.
Steve Shepherd entomologist taught me
something about bees I didn't know bees
are moving so fast and we look like
we're moving slow but if we you move
really slow the bees think you're a
statue and so the idea of and some of my
grandson and I I said look at this and
you could see underneath you can see the
bees going in and out I said to move
really slow and then he got fascinated
watching the bees say you're overcame
his fear of bees
it was excited that he's helping be
survived now we've created something
intergenerationally and saving the bees
is the number one bridge concept between
conservatives and liberals everyone
wants to save the bees that's number one
it's a number one bridge issue between
mending the fence so to speak across the
political and social divide everybody
wants to say the bees so this is
something that's an actionable solution
and the you know the scientific data out
there is pretty disturbing you know 75%
of flying insects in the past 27 years
and a report from Germany that just came
out have disappeared now many of your
listeners are out in the country you
know I grew up in the country remember
all the bug splatter you used to have
against your windshield you don't see
that anymore
because the the
insects are dying because exposure to
pesticides monoculture we have
monoculture you have what's called
pollination deserts when you have lots
of biodiversity lots of plants and
diversity the plants are pollinating at
different times of the season when you
do to a monoculture all the plants like
almonds yeah all produce flowers all at
once and then there's no pollen
available so the immune system of the
bees due to factory farming loss of
habitat deforestation by phosphates you
know heavy metals pollution all those
things are cofactors but the nail in the
coffin is by far these viruses and so in
logically empowering and supporting the
immune system of bees then gives the
bees the opportunity of the ability to
be able to survive longer do more
pollination is there a specific source
of these viruses that they can isolate
these a new thing as well actually
there's a and there's a slide that shows
the pandemic spread of these viruses
throughout the world that came from Asia
and it's now a global pandemic all bees
in the world are all infected with these
viruses because when they infected
honeybee for instance visits the flower
it leaves viral particles in the flower
and the flower and then a wild bumble
bee comes a visit it becomes infected
mmm so there it's a unfortunate I'm I
usually work perfect storm it's a
terrible storm of cofactors and because
you know 80 percent of the benefit that
farmers receive is from wild bees right
well we can't count them and you know I
have bee hives and and what happened to
calling the collapse you go out on
Monday the bees are happy goat on
Thursday they're all gone I mean it's
that quick that quick and it's not like
there's hundreds of dead bees around
your beehive they're just gone
there could be hundreds of pounds of
honey and the beaze
you know they're gone so they go off
somewhere to the die what happens is
because the newly hatched bees are
called nurse bees and the nurse bees
take care of the baby bees but when the
colony senses of nun of pollen and food
to support the brood and the colony the
nurse bees are prematurely recruited to
go out and find pollen so
abandoned the babies and then the varroa
mites are on there gets go on
uncontrolled and they start injecting
viruses and so there are other cofactors
just like when you get an infection from
a viral infection you can get bacterial
infections and so there's a there's a
cascade of opportunistic infections as
immunology is decreased because these
viruses so isn't there a contributing
factor that had to do with cell phones
as well I actually I'm really glad you
brought that up this is a contributing
factor I have not seen convincing
evidence as a hypothesis that's not
fully flushed out there are some people
quite adamant and their belief in this
but I'm I'm driven by science and data I
can the the rhythms the frequency of the
high of cell phones there's an argument
that's made just it's not in the same
cosine wave of the wavelengths that we
experience in nature and so this is
disruptive I understand that I'm still
on the fence I'd like to see a really
strong data and scientific evidence of
that but it's a hypothesis that needs to
be tested that's what we're looking also
at low frequency long-range
communication systems mmm
I you know I think I told you this story
if I didn't apologize
when we were on Fear Factor we had a bee
stunt we had to cover these people in
bees and a local bee colony flew in to
check out what was going on and those
bees and the bees that were brought
there met in the sky and worked it out
and the beekeeper told us okay we have
to shut down and everybody's got to back
out of here so we had to shut down
everything and back out for like about
an hour at least a half hour while these
bees communicated with each other so
they're flying a giant swarm of them
flying in the eye in the in the air
trying to figure out why hey what do you
guys here for what are you doing why are
you in our neighborhood like oh I'm not
moving in or just filming a TV show like
they had to work it out that is so
unusual it was really weird that's
extraordinary
yeah so when a new queen splits from a
hive you know a colony they then take a
big group of them with
so it's all about protecting the Queen I
just don't understand how they worked it
out there was no fight to the death
there was no nothing they just sort of
worked it out and the other bees took
off and the the bees that were there
came back to there hi there little
colony also well that's glad you mention
that because this also speaks to what's
called be drift and so when we publish
our article in Nature scientific reports
actually I think the data is understated
because 10 to up to 20 percent of bees
will drift from one college to another
so we had treatment colonies and we had
treated colonies well because 10 to 20
percent of the bees in the treated
colonies went to the control colonies we
actually diluted the differential
because we had cross you know movement
of control bees and beehive versus
treated bees and so when we actually I
think another some of my other
co-authors thinks we actually have
understated the data but when you look
at the p-values of significance and you
know the extraordinary P is less than
point zero zero 9 and that for
scientists is an extraordinarily
significant data set that is clearly
showing the evidence that these extracts
help the immunity of bees and help them
be able to survive and and do a better
job that's awesome and it's crazy that
it's just a natural mushroom but it
makes sense what you're saying that they
built their beehives in these rotting
trees knowing that these fungi were
there somehow or another being attracted
to it you know the I'd like to say the
first five seconds that I got the first
patent award my ego did swell and then
10 seconds later I said are you friggin
kidding we're Neanderthals with nuclear
weapons how could be the first one to
have discovered that bees benefit from
my Salim immunologically but there's no
what's called prior art there's no
evidence and I mean think of that we
have the intelligence of nature
underneath our feet and this is
something we need to tap into and the
fact that we can show a natural product
you know if you had HPV HIV and you went
to a doctor 12 days after having one
treatment of these extracts and your
virus has dropped 45 thousand to one any
physician would say wow you're
really well and this is what be able to
see them now we've been trying to find
what's called the mode of action how are
these viruses actually being reduced
putatively our strongest hypothesis now
is as providing essential nutrients that
are important for the immune system to
activate gene sequences then our that
attack the viruses and give a more host
defensive immunity of protection of a
further infection
now does this work with humans as well
like chaga is supposed to be good for
your immune system right well it says
this is a great convergence of
traditional Chinese medicine and
European medicine medicine from
indigenous peoples all over the world
have been used these mushrooms is that
now we're finding scientific evidence
that folkloric Li the reputation of
chaga of reishi of these mushrooms
helping the immunity of humans this is
translational medicine so but bees is an
animal clinical study bees have been
stated as being resized for Sofala the
second most well studied animal in the
world this is a animal clinical study
past digestion past was called the
cytochrome p450 pathway which is your
detoxification pathway mostly in our
liver all animals use the cytochrome
p450 pathway to break down toxins and
it's passed the microbiome into the
blood so this is actually this is a an
animal clinical study and I think it's a
gateway for us to take this as credible
evidence that natural products can be
more useful and offer a broader
Bioshield of benefits than pure
pharmaceuticals that go after one
molecule with one target one set of
receptors there are illogical fields
that developed in the complexity of
nature this is what our foods are this
is we are in concept biomolecular
communication with the ecosystem we've
evolved in this complex molecular
environment and so our immune systems
are up regulated through multiple
stimuli and that's why I think these
extracts because of their complexity
they build upon the complexity of
natural systems and help our immune
system so you have hoped that this is
something that we could eventually see
being like a peer-reviewed proven thing
for human beings as well absolutely I do
believe that's on the near event horizon
there's a lot of researchers now this is
I I believe is on the near event horizon
is something that we're gonna see more
and more there's lots of clinical
studies for physicians it's not no
branding though selling of anything it's
a popular website called mushroom
references comm I populated specifically
for physician physicians I just spoke at
singularity University Stanford Medical
School in front of a thousand physicians
I try to make the bridge of the
credibility of the science for
physicians who are just not educated yet
because they don't have the resources or
the time so mushroom references comm you
can go that website
it's got hundreds of references that
then you can put in any you know symptom
or species etc and you'll be able to
find the peer-reviewed references
there's about thirty references for
instance on soul simon right now which
is an area of research that i'm
particularly focused on now there was
for a long time a stigma associated with
anything that had anything to do with
mushrooms particularly because of
psychedelic mushrooms is that is that
alleviated I know that John Hopkins
study on psilocybin has shown some
pretty incredible benefits and there's a
lot of people now that are starting to
look to it for treatment for people with
PTSD or addiction issues has that become
more mainstream in your experience
no it's there's a vast title change in
medical science there's a slide these
are just a few of the universities right
now that have been approved by the FDA
and other agencies for human clinical
studies on psilocybin Wow so we work in
Harvard Stan yeah
Purdue Penn Toronto University of
Toronto that's amazing so that's only a
few of them I actually could put the
Department of Veterans Affairs that's
very interesting as well right if I
could put up twenty more but you
couldn't read them because I had to be
able to just to be able so but this is
this is a huge shift and the the
clinical studies are coming out for as
you know PTSD in particular has been
extremely useful but one of them that
came out Johns Hopkins for breaking
tobacco
fifteen patients small clinical studies
statistically significant 10 out of 15
people after one or two heroic doses of
psilocybin 12 months later had not
smoked a cigarette Wow
so I mean to break tobacco addiction was
sort of the most addictive substances on
this planet is phenomenal that's
incredible and the other research for
PTSD depression I'm really excited about
cognition creativity I think we can
there's a lot of smart people out there
a lot of smart people listening to your
podcast I think the idea of micro dosing
and being able to increase our ability
of cognition and creativity to come up
with the solutions that can get it out
of get us out of this mess just think of
that we had hundreds of millions of
people thinking about solutions like
I've come up with to solve some of the
environmental challenges we have today
for food biosecurity the loss of bees is
a threat to our national security just
think about the threat to our economy
so this micro dosing I think has
enormous potential as well and when you
think about the one of the issues I see
right now with the clinical studies it's
like almost it's too good to be true oh
great universities great science
published in peer-reviewed journals at
the top of their game but they these
mushrooms have so many benefits for
fighting dementia potentially
Alzheimer's Johns Hopkins has an
Alzheimer clinical study ongoing
currently for a dose of psilocybin to
see if it helps pre Alzheimer's patients
and not go into full-blown Alzheimer's
there's so many different benefits
potentially it's almost like a chaos of
data how it's almost too good to be true
so might my team and Pam Crisco is an MD
from British Columbia we've been working
with people and we have just launched
today an app that's at micro dose dot me
double entendre microdose thought
meaning is available in the Apple store
and Sevilla Android and this is a quick
little vision a micro dosing study a
mote in Apple allowed this on the App
Store
that's a big shift and as this is a
Schedule one drug that they're talking
about taking on micro dose levels I mean
I'm not you know I'm just saying what it
is right
I mean obviously you know what can't
bomb n I want everybody right but this
this is really significant is that
measures your ability to here
well vision the tap test you know and
how quickly you can tap your fingers
it's it's a whether you're stacking it
with but it's also good for non
psychoactive substance use
what is your baseline so you're getting
older I'm getting older I'm getting
younger do you have a new thing okay I
vote for you I figured it out but the
idea is to create baselines you know and
then you create a baseline over time so
you can find out how far you
deteriorated or what your trend line was
versus the general population so the
idea with with micro SIM Ike reduce dot
me is that will create a massive data
set massive amount of data and then will
offer this to clinicians for them to see
signal from the noise
I suspect hypothetically I don't have
the evidence but several doctors have
collected case studies of tinnitus or
tinnitus though with pronunciations are
correct of the buzzing in your ears and
being able and people have resolved that
from doing micro dosing real and thirty
percent of Americans have hearing loss
or more is progressive over time how
much hearing loss leads to depression
because you can't hear your loved one
say things and you getting arguments and
I didn't hear you and you didn't say
that and let me just it just magnifies
how so the ability of being able to have
better cognition a better neurological
development and helping hearing vision
depression if the interesting thing
about the micro dosing that we've been
collecting is a people tend to be
happier and they're happier they're more
creative and were they're more creative
they're happier you learning a new kata
you excited the next day you nailed it
you're up and gonna do it again you're
writing a new book you're doing an
artist work
so creativity breeze happiness happiness
breeze creativity mm-hmm and then the
opposite is true malaise and depression
you're not as creative yeah you're an a
you're not enjoying life you're not
looking forward to the next day so I
think it's almost a binary choice and
the idea of using micro dosing and that
the the definition of micro dosing is is
has sort of a variable interpretations
so the use of the selasa be cubensis
scale which is the most common soul side
mushroom in the world one gram is
liftoff five grams is what Terence would
say was a hero's journey and when I was
on last I didn't with you I did 20 grams
you know that was a little bit much you
might say but when you do 1/10 of a 1
gram you don't feel it but when xx for
sure you don't feel it so the idea is
you do micro dosing below the threshold
of intoxication but then it benefits
neurogenesis now there's an
extraordinarily interesting study that
came out with a mice but I think it's
translational medicine and they were
doing micro dosing versus macro dosing
so and these are some numbers but
basically one gram is almost equivalent
to one milligram per kilogram of body
weight 70 kilos is 152 pounds and so at
1 milligram per kilogram of with these
mice that's like one gram of cubensis
that's that's a dose super-high dose but
it's a dose so what they did with these
mice is they had them in an arena with a
metal floor and they gave a tone dong
then 40 seconds later they were shocked
so they had the tone again a few minutes
later on 40 seconds later they got
shocked after 10 rotations that mice
realize like Pavlov's dog when there is
a tone there could be a negative
consequence a shock happening SCID mice
would cower in fear so then they dosed
them with a micro dose 0.1 milligrams
per kilogram versus 1 milligram per
kilogram 1/10 of a
dose versus a full dose interestingly
the full dose it took 10 rotations of no
shock the tone no shock before they
forgot or became react limited not to
have the fear conditioned response with
the microdose 1/10 of that and I took
two rotations two rotations with a micro
dose and they dissociated potentially
PTSD why do you think it's less well
well it's a really good question in the
evidence we have so far and again this
is very early evidence lots of research
is going on in this it looks like the
neurogenic benefits of micro dosing or
greater than the neurogenic benefits of
macro dosing you know you flood the
receptors you're having this incredible
trip is fantastic it's colorful it's
life-changing yes that is all beneficial
for changing your life but going micro
dosing over the long term
because the nerves don't regrow in six
hours but over weeks of regeneration of
nerves with micro dosing it seems to me
that the micro dosing instead of
flooding and overwhelming all the
receptors are feeding these receptors
that allowing for neurogenesis now this
is a again hypothesis there's so many
great people studying this right now but
I'm advocating to all of the clinic
clinicians at Johns Hopkins at Stanford
UCLA at Harvard please do testing of the
patients for hearing and vision and
other behavioral tests that are not just
about emotion and mood in PTSD but let's
actually get some physical measurements
so then you can track prior during
during his to complicate assists to into
much intervention you're tripping your
brains out you don't have time to they
be tested they offer a vision an audit
but then post wise and then looking at
that the residual effects now dr. James
Fadiman he has the the Fadiman protocol
I am my protocol the stamina protocol
James Fatima's protocol was micro dosing
one day on two days off one days on my
protocol that I'm suggesting is four
days on
three days off and James and I are good
friends we talked about this we laugh
the words you were just basically these
are hypothetical potential treatments
comparing data between the two of you
this is what microdose not me
will do we wanted to say are you
following the stammers protocol the
Fadiman protocol your own protocol are
you using it with niacin where you're
giving up with lion's mane what are you
using then lion's mane it's phenomenally
powerful neurogenic Lee and we there's
two clinical studies out of Japan with
mild cognitive decline and dementia
showing very positive results taking 4
to 2 to 4 grams lion's mane per day the
mycelium actually interesting not the
fruit by the mycelium is much more
powerful and we just been contracting
with a neurological testing laboratory
in France and we just got some amazing
results back showing that when we had
lion's mane extracts of the mycelium
exposed to neurons and they the
composite control was the brain derived
nerve growth factor nor factor and it
was it's used as a baseline for
measuring neurogenic compounds
comparatively and the neurogenesis
benefits from this were for potent stem
cells stem cells that then differentiate
into neurons and the BDNF clearly shows
how to sustain a protocol with a lion's
mane it also increased the number of
neurons and then we started looking at
analogues of psilocybin and the
analogues when we added the lion's mane
mycelium with these also having analogs
which are perfectly legal they're not
schedule 1 substances psilocybin
analogues are not what is it exactly a
psilocybin analog there's a number of
them that have been reported in
literature there's bavistin
and nora biosystem are two of the more
prominent ones now I am a psycho not and
in 1960 biosystem a report of a child
died outside of Kelso Washington from
eating mushrooms in Azure
the family ingested the mushrooms they
went to the hospital the child developed
a fever eventually had renal failure and
died a chemist by the name of lung and
then Benedict and Tyler picked up on
this they analyzed the mushrooms looking
for a new toxin the mushrooms were
identified as being selasa P Baio Cistus
it is a mushroom that goes in Washington
State and Oregon
sometimes in British Columbia but not in
Northern California it's very rare
species but grows in yards when they
analyze the mushroom looking for new
potential toxins they found this
alkaloid it's a dimethyltryptamine based
compound and they named it bio Sisseton
after salafi about sis's sobei assistant
had the reputation of potentially being
a deadly poisonous toxin is present in
cubensis as present and many psilocybin
mushrooms and my books also have
mushrooms of the world has charts that
show how much they have systems in these
things but no one had I ever eat a
consumed bio system because this
reputation may assistant is legal I
obtained some pure Bay of Sisseton from
laboratory legally I have no soul Sobhan
you know nature provides I don't people
make this very clear but I can have I
can possess these also having analogs
and so since there was no reports in the
scientific literature of whether this
was truly toxic or not I was my with a
doctor a friend of mine MD that measured
my vitals and hooked me up you know
their blood pressure ECG that all the
biometrics that are needed and so we did
a ten of one study I decided that even
though it had a history of potentially
of killing this child I think that's a
false positive and I think it was bad
science I couldn't find no one who ever
ingested this so I decided I would
ingest it now my friend Pam she's an MD
that goes into Antarctica she's the only
doctor on a research vessel and so she
goes down there and she gets to bring a
roommate and was me and so Pam and I
were working really hard we had over our
plane tickets were ready to go to
Antarctica we've been planning this for
months
um and then we decide well just before
we go paulus do the the Bayeux assistant
test you know i we talking about this
for months we finally got the time to do
this but the next day we're going to
Antarctica
so Pam looks at her cellphone is this
Russian research vessel crashed into a
reef tore a hole in it and it's like
it's now the trip is cancelled no I mean
I've American Express you know plane
tickets hotels I got 24 hours to try I
can't recapture all this money because I
can't we can't go this your trips are
canceled so I'd super high anxiety I
told my doctor friend I i I've too much
anxiety I I can't go this is too crazy
and then she kind of looked at me go on
listen we've been planning this for
months you know please and I listened to
her and so I did 10 milligrams of Bayeux
Sisseton she measured my heartbeat blood
pressure all those all those metrics my
eyes did dilate she said that was good
so he's had to talk like a fact then she
checked in with me every 10 15 minutes
20 minutes you have liftoff one hour
you're full blown into it and she
chucked with me she checked with me
that's yes and I didn't get high I'm not
alone she goes how do you feel and I
said I feel great I have no anxiety
everything this trip is going to be fine
so here we found a analog of psilocybin
that does not get you high that's legal
that reduced anxiety I think this is the
tip of the proverbial iceberg because
all the clinical studies are proved
right now for pure psilocybin what about
the analogues they activate other
receptor sites you know and you feel in
neurological field and that's why I
think this is why looking at the natural
form of these mushrooms standardized to
the sole Simon a certain concentration
versus the pure molecule I think that is
the way of the future because Purcell's
Ivan is up to six $7000 a gram and you
can translate that into growing cells I
have mushrooms for two dollars a gram
now there are people out there listening
saying well the price is coming down
indeed it is
this down maybe to a thousand to five
hundred dollars a gram but how many
people in the urban
low lower income you know impoverished
populations suffering from PTSD who
don't can't afford to go to Johns
Hopkins to spend tens of thousands of
dollars to have a clinical treatment I
think this democratizes the the use of
Sullivan and micro dosing that could be
a benefit across our society and then
why proposing is you stock up with
niacin and the reason why you stack up
with niacin is you take 1/10 of a gram
of /b cubensis microdose you had 100 to
200 milligrams of niacin now if someone
tries to get high by taking ten times as
much they'll have like two grams of
niacin this is flushing niacin vitamin
b3 and that flushing nice and will give
you such an irritable reaction of skin
itching of people who've taken vitamin B
they three they know this so it becomes
the antabuse
for micro dosing but moreover it excites
the nerves at the end of the peripheral
nervous system and neuropathy is
oftentimes present themselves a
deadening of the fingertip the nerves of
the fingertips and toes and it's also a
vasodilator so there's three attributes
of stacking niacin with suicide
mushrooms that prevents abuse becomes
the antabuse it dilates the blood
vessels to deliver the neurogenic
benefits of psilocybin to the endpoints
of the peripheral nervous system and the
central nervous system and it then and
also excites the nerve endings so I
think those three reasons this could be
I hope to see in the future psilocybin
mushrooms being over-the-counter
vitamins approved by the FDA stack with
niacin that allows for the universality
of use for the benefit of our culture
and what we were talking last time
is there any other evidence of people
taking these analogs and having this
anti-anxiety effect other than you I
mean this seems it's a very small sample
size where it's just one person yes
there are as an antidepressant as far as
the anxiety and and and depression are
interrelated there are are reports james
Fadiman in his studies he is population
study which admittedly small did not see
an anti eggs
anxiety component but other clinical
studies at Johns Hopkins also the
anxiety of dying from cancer right but
that was actually suicide but that was
actually suicide but I'm saying with you
is also you had a very profoundly
stressful situation happening something
you had prepared for for a long time
than all sudden was gone and all this
money's gone you got to try to figure
out get it back if I could its immediate
right
maybe with these other people they
didn't have such an immediate anxiety
moment and maybe their anxiety was
harder to measure whether it was coming
or going well I absolutely it's an enemy
one study this needs this is just people
me no the other one with the other
people that have experienced it but
didn't experience any anti-anxiety
there's no one else that we know in the
scientific literature
yo handguards mentions he I published
Selassie be our essence with him the
most potent suicide mushroom in the
world
yoanne guard says and one thing that he
was asked and he said that the Bayer
Sisseton was equal to that soul Simon I
don't have high confidence in that
statement I consider BAE assistant I was
ready for liftoff I was hoping for
liftoff
I know but liftoff feels like and I
didn't get it so so this is this is what
happens in science so much is the
scientists when they you can't do a
clinical study you wee bioassay this is
very common this is how Albert Hoffman
you know discovered you know LSD he bio
a sated so we need to it accidentally
though an ancient accident Lane right
got in the one for the famous bike ride
but then he did it purposely after that
but nevertheless this is what our
scientific you know Psychonauts must do
sometimes Shogun yes Oscar Shogun's a
famous for the most famous of all and
the most revered and he bioassay based
on his knowledge of chemistry he wasn't
going to try to commit suicide lamb so
so this is really an area that I think
has enormous value and a several
medicine studies have come out one that
I had mentioned before is a population
of several hundred thousand prisoners
and there was a 18 percent reduction in
violent crime
22% or so reduction in larceny and theft
in a population where they reported they
had one psilocybin mushroom experience
and statistically significant
now Association may not be causation but
it can be but a more recent study from
the British Columbia what I find to be
so fascinating is that they did a large
population set and partner to partner
violence if you're a male partner had
done one psilocybin trip to
statistically significant reduction of
the probability of that partner being
violent towards their other partner
statistically significant so I always
thought that there's a dating app maybe
you should have the dating app have you
tripped on Sullivan yes well that may be
a better you know candidate for dating
so I think psilocybin makes nicer people
and I think we did a lot more nicer
people that are more creative that are
dedicated to helping the community and I
think this is a a potential paradigm
shifting if a drug unquestionably and
here's the other thing this could be
profit I mean these these companies that
are seeking to profit off of
pharmaceutical drugs you can profit off
this stuff with particularly with the
protocol that you just described with
adding niacin to it to ensure that
people are doing only micro dosing look
man this could be a very profitable
enterprise for some company and the
benefits if if people can mirror the
benefits that you had of this
alleviation of anxiety I mean god that's
like most of what people struggle with
so many people out there listening to
this right now like fuck I wish there
was something that didn't get me high
but just alleviated this fucking angst
that so many people are struggling with
every day I'd say it's a massive disease
complex has swept our societies yeah and
and and facing all these problems how
could you not become depressed well you
cannot become depressed by becoming
creative and I think that's all Simon
and micro dosing enables the creative
pathways for ingenuity for us to feel
but we have meaning we can make a
meaningful difference it's really
important you know we've entered into 6x
the sixth greatest extinction event
known in the history of life in this
planet we've had two other extinction
events from asteroid impacts 250 million
years ago 65 million years ago but we're
and now involved in a massive extinction
event and the research that came out
today and the other resources come out
with 75 percent of the insect population
40% in in immediate jeopardy the
research article came out said in Europe
and North America they have good data
collection Amazon they don't so we do
you mean have a measure of the insect
loss in the Amazon but if you're a trout
if you're a bird if you like drinking
coffee and you like chocolate and like
almonds I mean these are all dependent
upon pollinators so if we lose these
flying insects we lose the pollination
services and it threatens worldwide food
biosecurity this is one of the biggest
threats to our ecosystem now I think we
can invent our ways out of this if we
creatively you know expand our ability
to come up with novel solutions and I
think those solutions are literally
underfoot and all around us today we
just have to wake up like I woke up to
helping the bees you know there are so
many smart people out there if they just
started realizing that nature is a deep
well of evolutionary knowledge and that
we have evolved within this complexity
then to delve into that library of
knowledge and pulling out a political
solutions vetted by science controlled
studies but not looking at these
pharmaceutical pure molecules as the way
of the future but looking at the upon
the complexity of the microbiome the
complex interrelationships and selecting
out micro biomes that then quit guilds
of solutions that are applicable to the
problems that we face today hmm all
right I like that idea all of it it's
just it's it's beautiful that there are
these natural solutions that you know
maybe if we could just shift people's
ideas about how we view psilocybin how
we view the analogs how we view the
interaction
people in nature that you can you know
we can make a real change make a change
that's tangible inside of our lifetime
and again selling this stuff like give
look we're seeing what's happening right
now with medical marijuana and then
shifting to commercial marijuana and now
hemp it's giant I mean it's a huge
industry through its change Colorado
Colorado Denver's Real Estate's gone
through the roof
people are moving there so much that
they've got traffic problems now they
never conceived of in the past it's it's
changed their economy and it's changed
their economy due to just a really
obvious shift here's the shift marijuana
is not bad for you it's not we thought
it was it's not we're sorry you could
have it now and now you could sell it
and now it's legal but federally we're
still dealing with Schedule one so it's
it's there these shifts are happening
these companies are investing money
there's a lot of profit to be made and a
lot of people are profiting but it's
still in this weird transitionary stage
it is but this is a People's Revolution
yeah you have decriminalized nature
coming out of Oakland which I'm fully in
favor of how dare we make a species
illegal that makes no sense to me but
what is Oakland specifically they've
made ayahuasca psilocybin what else all
natural products with psychoactive
properties to the best of my
understanding both Denver and Oakland
they removed the funding of the
prosecutors and judges in the courts so
you can't use public funds in order to
prosecute people for possession so this
is a very still arrest them for it
though well you the law enforcement
officers not getting paid he's not doing
his job he's violating his code of
conduct I mean if you arrest him and you
take him to a prosecutor or prosecutors
I have no funding for this now you're
wasting our time you're just coming here
is wasting my time I have murders to
solve what if someone's selling it
decriminalization does not it doesn't
prevent you from being prosecuted for
selling assets right that's a really
really good question and I have thoughts
on it that's controversial because this
speaks to the ability of some people
having access and not if you want
I only trip on suicide mushrooms once or
twice a year that's all I need as
Terence
I think Alan Watts said when you when
you when you get the message from the
phone hang it up um so if you just have
these little time mushrooms growing in
your backyard or you know how to collect
them then you only need one or two doses
a year and even micro dosing you know
you could you get a lot more extension
of that but my view and I I've never had
any problem with law enforcement in
Washington Oregon in British Columbia in
Canada in particular law enforcement has
a very pretty mature attitude towards
this if you have a small amount and
you're not trafficking and you're for
individual use it just doesn't raise the
level of the need for enforcement no I
understand that but I just wish there
was no incentive at all there was
nothing there like this the idea that
you have to rely on the good grace of a
cop who understands there's no incentive
to arrest you
that seems a coarse shit to me yeah like
we're growing adults in 2019 with a
mountain of evidence this is not we're
not living in the dark ages anymore the
fact that it's still a possibility that
you get arrested or you could face some
sort of criminal charges for having
something that's only been demonstrated
to be good this is why is the citizens
movement the federal government I mean
the Republicans and conservatives and
libertarians are all about state rights
this is a People's Movement they should
get behind this because individual
community rights against the big man
against the federal government
yeah the federal government it needs to
be a title change and how do we do that
is because we have we have
decriminalized
a nature in Oregon we have the Dender
and Denver initiative other cities
around the country it's now spreading
throughout the entire yeah there's
probably 20 cities in the next 16 months
they're gonna have decriminalization the
City Council's I also think it's a
significant solution to this problem
that we're facing with pills and a lot
of destructive drugs there's a lot of
self-destructive drugs that people are
taking because these people are hurting
what what psilocybin gives you that
these drugs don't it gives you a
potential to heal it gives you a moment
to reflect it gives you a change in the
way you think and you interface with the
world and that just doesn't exist in
those other those
drugs or escape drugs and the need to
escape is what we got to eliminate and I
think that's one of the things that
psilocybin can help it can help
alleviate the need to escape and a
shout-out to Rick Doblin and Ileana
Gillooly of maps maps org the
multidisciplinary Association for
psychedelic studies maps dot org and
maps dot CA in Canada have been
instrumental and bringing forward
psychedelic drugs for PTSD and clinical
studies and maps is now on phase three
with MDMA with MDMA have had Rick on a
couple of times so yeah he's I mean he's
a real pioneer in this and so what's
interesting in getting now I'm from
three different groups
I have heard who sat down with FDA
scientists there's been a new turnover
within the FDA and these scientists are
looking at just pure science without
politics they don't care about politics
they want to help people and several of
them have said they've never seen it was
so sad in particular a safer drug with
such a dramatic impact was so it's in
frequency of use one or two times and so
there was a movie that just came out
called fantastic fungi and and Michael
Pollan's in there I'm in there
Louis Schwartzberg has put it out he he
spent 12 years working on this movie
this fantastic fungi calm it's a
grassroots movement theaters are selling
out all over the country they look at
New York City for one night they have to
keep it in for a week because they're
standing lines standing room you know
long lines to get into the theater it's
all about the use of mushrooms and the
Johns Hopkins studies with end-of-life
patients it's very very well done but it
speaks to this is that this is literally
a quote unquote underground movement
that's welling up and the the attraction
that people have for this is a
reflection of the title change that is
happening now this is a worldwide
movement that is sweeping through the
mycelial underground and through a
connection so something I very much
encourage you to see fantastic fun
is it on Netflix it's not on Netflix
Louis was offered a lot of money for
Netflix but once it gets in the Netflix
it's a library book in the library and
he wanted to build community so he's
been out and people can sponsor theater
openings it's got a hundred percent on
Rotten Tomatoes how many movies get a
hundred percent on Rotten Tomatoes so it
is really a people's movie in a
spreading you know where can you get it
you go to fantastic for nj.com and you
can sign up for theaters Norma so it has
to be in a theater yeah right now it
will be eventually after this year it's
going to be available on the web right
now Louis spent a lot of money four or
five million dollars I think Norman and
Lynne leer Norman Lear all in the family
you know nor chipmunk er there are also
a co-producers of this really yeah and
so yeah Lindley Roman Lear's out there
tripping allegedly I can explore the
magic that lives beneath our feet Wow
III thought Archie Bunker was one of the
most lovable racist conservative
assholes I've ever ever seen on TV but
um well normally I did a lot more than
that yeah
this is really interesting though that
they've decided to release it in in film
theaters and verses on the web because
if you really want to reach a lot of
people I mean is it selling this way
it's just I mean it seems like if he
spent a lot of money the way to get that
money back would be to sell it to
Netflix like wow that's I would agree
with you except Amazon Netflix offered
him 1/4 to 1/2 of the cost and so oh it
was not they didn't value it and they
didn't see it I mean South by Southwest
turned him down
and it's got a hundred percent on Rotten
Tomatoes my people just don't see this
violate South by Southwest turned them
down because it's not part I think of
the Hollywood establishment South by
Southwest you know so I mean I can't
explain why South by Southwest terms of
town or you know or the the other
festivals the contest of walk cetera
that's not my level of expertise but
what is happening is that these theaters
are selling out
days upon days a huge response people
have an appetite for this because it
gives them hope and meaning in our time
of desperation they see actionable
solutions that cross political and
cultural boundaries that can help the
Commons hmm and I think that we are
suffering in our societies from the
media from the politics from the science
showing the loss of habitat health that
were under lots of stressors just like
the bees are we have a multiplicity of
stressors and these stressors lead to
malaise depression disease crime and
poverty and it's something that I think
can can help to a title change for the
better provided it's done responsibly
now you've mentioned companies there's
20 at least new psilocybin companies
have been formed in the past year a lot
of them from the canadian cannabis
industry they made a ton of money so
they're they've several of them called
me up I've talked to two groups in both
groups when I asked them have you done a
heroic dose on Soul Simon
none of them would admit that they did
they're scared they had even tripped
what I asked him have you done a small
dose they said I never my silent and at
one group I said you folks just seemed
like economic opportunists and one of
them said that's exactly what we are we
just try to make money so I'll make a
deal with them listen I need one
afternoon of your time I think it's
important to come to Jesus I mean it
would be amazing right do that and say
look I'll do this deal with you but just
give me five hours you take five hours
have them all trip together and now go
let's reevaluate this I'm with you I'm
with you brother
and that's what's needed because those
of us who understand the importance of
this realize that this is something that
we have to carefully shepherd yes for
maximum benefit and at these
commercialization of these companies
I call it Spore Wars very soon this can
be spore wars between all these concepts
good thing that's then that's a sequel
spore wars listen Mandy what it's
exciting to me is it's not dirty anymore
okay when the first time I did mushrooms
I think was very very early 2000s and
God he'd tell people about it they were
like what's wrong with you you're a
grown adult you pay taxes yeah you know
all my life it's like you what kind of a
fuckup are you at your age you're doing
mushrooms my god grow up if that's what
it was like and you would tell me no I
don't think that's what it is I think it
expands your consciousness I think it
connects you to higher levels of
thinking and it just it makes you more
in tuned with the great beyond there's
something there's something more there
and I'm like you listen to yourself yeah
go to work go goddamn get up in the
morning and have a cup of coffee and go
to work but now it's people are slowly
but sure the dirtiness of even and then
the term micro dosing is wonderful
because people know you can take a
little bit you know I believe micro dose
on this podcast for RN I just took a
couple stems recently and then like I
guess is probably a little more than
microdose it was it was a pretty
we were we were definitely noticeably
high but like an hour in and like me an
hour and a half in I go I forgot we took
mushrooms like why am I so happy but
that feeling it's like I want people to
experience that feeling because it's a
it's a relatively clean feeling and I
after mushrooms I feel younger yeah and
I go to these TED conferences every year
and I feel lighter I feel like I was
treated like a leper you know and I went
to Ted you know and the organism er Ted
were so afraid I don't talk about
psychedelic mushrooms how many years ago
is this into 2008 when I first went
what's it like now though there's right
this last time I mean I was treated like
a super celebrity I had these hugely
hugely powerful people some names you
probably know who came up to me and
would shake my shoulders going now I
understand
now I understand yeah down boy you know
they're there but they walk into
something and they're their mates
they're friends
their business associates you know there
seem that the common theme is wow he was
such a jerk before and he's so nice now
yeah and the seeking cooperation and
they still are productive they're still
are creative they're banging it out the
coders in in Silicon Valley know that
micro dosing helps their coding ability
so it's a competitive advantage to those
other computer companies that do not mmm
you know I think any any new business
populated in particular by young people
who are not doing micro dosing are gonna
be a competitive disadvantage mmm
because the creativity flow the
camaraderie the community seeking to
benefit the Commons and also reward
yourself I'm not saying it's all you
know just just helping helping the
Commons but the idea of being able to
reward yourself and people rejoice and
your success and they benefit from it as
well it really integrates people
together yeah and it's also people need
to understand that there's a lot of this
squirreling away resources and money and
things and and trying to climb that
corporate ladder this is a finite life
it doesn't last that long it's a trick
you get sucked into this trick and this
trick is what every CEO and every head
of every corporation every chief
financial officer all these people that
are just trying to like improve the
bottom line rake in more money keep this
company growing and keep kicking ass
it's a trick you're sucked up in a trick
there's a natural human tendency to
accumulate numbers for whatever reason
good back to our early days when
resources were scarce and if you get
sucked into that trick one day you're
gonna wake up and that that's gonna be
usually be too late
you usually it's on your deathbed
usually it's close to it you like what
did I do this is it
my health is failing my life is falling
apart and what has my life been it's
been 10 12 14 hours a day in these
stuffed offices under fluorescent lights
crunching numbers and trying to acquire
things and and for what like what what
impact have I made on humans what would
what is the negative impact of
my ambition on the people that around me
like all this is like the one thing that
psilocybin and particularly just
psychedelics in general can provide is a
break from patterns a stopping a cease
fire of all the momentum of our culture
civilization finances taxes credit-card
debt all that shit just stops and you
get a chance to step back and look at
the Machine watch it all whirl and spin
in front of you and you get to say oh I
got sucked into the trick I'm starting
to a trick a lot of people I've talked
to exactly what you're talking you're
mentioning and they did do a heroic
journey yeah and they then look back and
going why was i prioritizing that yeah I
want to be out with my children yes you
know and looking at birds or walking in
nature
yeah a chore like I might one of my
books else I have mushrooms of the world
has a great chapter and I think called
good tips for great trips and one of the
things I understand the clinically
controlled settings for clinical study
six out of a lot of us don't need that
but I really enjoy being on an ocean
Bluff or a high point and by being in
the mushrooms about half an hour before
sunset being with a loved one also good
to have an experienced person who's not
tripping who is up the watcher sitter a
sitter a sitter is there thinking
meditation practice in place folks give
these people some space who's just
watching and then the people who are
imbibing understand they have a watcher
they have somebody who's anchored who
could help them and then to have this
the Sun go down and and the stars come
out and the colors and then this oceanic
expanse of experience is just as nothing
short of spiritual and I agree I think
there's one thing we should talk about
though there are people that have a
tendency toward schizophrenia and these
people have sometimes they have
psychedelic breaks like they'll have
psychedelic experiences and then
they don't do well they go off I'm so
glad you brought that up and that is a D
selection from the from the clinical
studies of candidates who want to engage
but my good friend Mark Hayden who runs
Maps Canada had a very interesting story
with the schizophrenic I mean he also
cautioned in every physician I know is
on the same page as you
including medic not to medical marijuana
edible edible marijuana seems to have a
significant effect on people with it
what mark noted with this one person who
is a severe schizophrenic was that he
still heard voices in his head but the
voices now were friendly they were
affirming they weren't like you know go
that old somebody it was like you know
you are a good person right and so he
still had the voice in the head but the
tenor and tone and attitude of the
voices were supportive what I'm talking
about is it bringing on these
schizophrenic experiences that there has
been some evidence particularly about
marijuana that high doses of marijuana
for people that have tendencies and we
don't know right what what causes
someone to have schizophrenic breaks
because there there is a difference
between pre and post right people have
had deteriorating mental health that's
that correlates with schizophrenia like
what what it what it caused them to be
less gets a frantic or not exhibiting
any of the the problems and then all the
sudden having severe problems post
psychedelic trip or post large dose
edible marijuana and or even large dose
smoking it Oh some people they dab and
they smoke wax and then it happens to
people that smoke too much pot there's
certain people that have that tendency I
I would defer to clinicians who are
extremely skilled in this area and who
have seen many many patients I'm not a
doctor but I concur with you I think
that is a real concern the difference
between a toxin and a drug oftentimes be
dose and know at lower doses you can see
things at the higher doses you you don't
right
so it's an entire spectrum and it's so
complex and individuality zuv
if people are so uniquely different yeah
I have a friend who's a doctor if he
smokes a joint he can't go to sleep
hi smoke a joint and I'm a-comin to a
cuddle puddle man I'm ready for the
pillow you know at night I just I use it
for going to sleep yeah I'm the opposite
yeah I start writing I want to read and
want to watch documentaries but it's a
sativa thing too as well right
isn't it do you have a significant
difference in the way your body responds
to sativas versus indicas I like to be
educated in this subject I've used both
for a very long time I love Afghani
indica I you have a beard I have a beard
I love the smell cannabis on my legs
smelling your beer yeah it's my perfume
right I get it
so but there's a lot you know we're in a
new realm of pharmacology mmm and Pharma
cognizant and this and I think we have
to navigate this carefully
the problem with natural products is how
do you standardize them to the active
constituent when you have more than one
active constituent you know how do you
standardize them all there's an
entourage or a symphony effect this
speaks to the complexity of nature but I
have a phrase that I like is don't let
the perfect be the enemy of look good
just because you can't understand it
doesn't mean it necessarily does not
have a valid outcome or you know can't
be used and I think that what we need to
do is correct large data sets and that's
why I'm hoping microdose not me is going
to give us an enormous amount of data
then that clinicians can harvest from
and going we didn't anticipate this and
like these meta studies about partnered
partner violence when if your partner
men had tripped on mushrooms they were
less prone to violence that was signal
from the noise how many other signals
from the noise of these big big meta
files that we can we can pull out then
we can get serious scientists to do
really carefully control clinical
studies to be able to see this and then
and then how do you combine them and I
mean there's this it's a whole new
landscape that gets away from single
molecules
into the complexity of nature that we
can build upon navigating to that place
is going to be a challenge there's no
doubt about it but I think we're smart
enough now we have enough computer
technologies and diagnostic tools that
we should begin on that voyage today
what do you think is responsible for
that shift from Ted of 2008 to Ted of
2019 Michael Pollan's book probably yeah
Michael Pollan's book was was the big
bridge and now he has 40 pages on me and
Michael if you're listening buddy dude I
told him not to reveal my secret
mushroom tops
never trust a journalist and Michael
Pollan bless his heart I love him he's a
great guy but he said in his book so so
to speak he says Paul told me not to
tell you where my his secret mushroom
patch is but I can tell you that we
slept in a yurt there are three state
parks along the Columbia River and two
of them have Europe's he just basically
gave up your spot my spot and it's like
okay Michael well do that I think it's
the urge of the writer trying to give
something to their readership you know
so what happened to that spot get raised
it's it's run over with people
collecting saliva mushrooms they have
big signs everywhere they rush people
it's a huge income source now for the
tops for the cops because they bust
people but it but the good news about
that as I have gone on three state parks
and because there's big signs of no
mushroom picking a law enforcement there
there's lots of mushrooms they're
everywhere and so I can photograph them
but you're not allowed to touch them so
they look what do they check you on your
way out oh there there are like bees on
honey so to speak come on they are
hiding in the bushes there are alpha
males man that they've got drugs growing
out of the ground and they start they
strode touches I had a lot of fun with
my friend because I got a stick and I go
okay I touched the mushrooms with a
stick now am I actually touching the
mushrooms or not because if you touch
them they check your pockets they will
search you yeah they'll search you for
just randomly
know if they have reason to believe
reason to believe they can search you
stuff them in your underwear bro just
take a big fat baggie or swallow them
quickly but um you know I know this is
it is preposterous well if they find you
lying down well it with your eyes
dilated you'd have to talk to them you
know I don't know if they would do a
fecal sample later on or what Christ but
it is it approaches the absurd yeah you
know and this is when the law
enforcement because it was absurd even
the law enforcement officers I know who
you know even the martial arts a lot all
your life myself as well I had several
schools for about thirty years and I had
several law enforcement officers or
students yeah they don't want to be
involved I know they get roped into it
by the system yeah they'd like this is
not something they want to do I know a
ton of cops or not none of them give a
shit about mushrooms yeah it's yeah it's
hugely hugely unfortunate consequence of
really ridiculous laws and in the idea
of grown adults telling other grown
adults that they can't do something that
is incredibly beneficial that they
themselves have never experienced they
have no knowledge of it at all other
than the ancient stereotypes mushrooms
being bad mushrooms being for burnouts
and losers and hippies and all you can't
handle life those are walking hypocrites
and they're tormented but they have to
do this so yeah I found that most law
enforcement officers are extremely
reasonable yeah as long as you show
intent you know yeah respect respect
yeah under percent so it's it's never
been but you know I don't subscribe to
the defense that someone joined for
spiritual purposes and they have you
know hundreds of pounds with ziplock
bags with scales in the basement and
doing a commercial operation
right you're avoiding taxes right you're
producing this as a factory you know
take it in the chin you get busted
a comes with the territory yeah eyes
wide open
don't cloak it in like the navale of
spirituality you're trying to create a
spiritual revolution unless you're a
true Saint you're giving that shit away
yeah well that would be different but
yeah I have a phrase nature
provides I don't because I don't want to
be responsible for another person's
experience so for sure what if they have
a meltdown and they blame Joe Rogan yes
Paul stam yes I don't I can't control
that circumstance I don't want the
responsibility mm-hmm that's one of the
reasons why I've hesitated on getting
involved in medical marijuana or so you
know commercial marijuana have been
offered and I'm always like I just don't
think this is a right because you can't
especially with edibles you can't
control people you don't know what
they're gonna do I don't why Kenyon
College in 1973 my dad was coming to
visit and one of my one of my people on
the floor at this dormitory they made
some marijuana brownies oh boy and I had
never think we starts that way I ate two
brownies I got my dad's coming in two or
three hours so what the heck and I was
so frigging stoned I could not believe
it and I could barely keep my eyes were
really I was trying to trying to
maintain it you know how it is you're
trying to look like you're not stoned
but you're blitzed out of your gourd and
so I would my dad was like you're
looking at me really curiously this
1970s and so the next day I said dad I
got to tell you something I hate some
marijuana brownies he goes I knew
something was wrong I knew I could tell
what I could tell I don't know shit
Sherlock I'm finally on the floor yeah
but it was it's but marijuana did he get
mad at you no he was actually amused and
delighted that I explained to him why I
look so stoned oh well that's great that
you had that kind of communication yeah
just before before he died he wanted to
trip on mushrooms and and I turned him
down because it was close to the end of
his life and he was very religious and I
was concerned I would shake his reality
tree so severely that he would question
his entire life because he was like a
Death of a Salesman figure is a tragic
life that he led and the mushrooms could
have helped him enormous Lee but I was a
concern that he would look back and goes
I wasted my life so that was too much of
too heavy for me you know maybe I am
maybe I'm being selfish because I was
trying to protect my own feelings but he
wanted to do it
he asked me actually he said I want to
do suicide mushrooms with you
and he wouldn't smoke pot do you have
regrets about that but not doing it with
him I do I have a lot of regrets about
that so I I have met several people in
the past several weeks at Stanford
Medical School at these other
conferences that I go to which there's a
brain mind conference at Stanford
Medical School in the first two
sentences they mentioned psilocybin 120
neuroscientists you know and 150 billion
dollars in the room and psilocybin was
immediately mentioned and when I met
some people there that are
intergenerational grandparent parent an
18 19 year old child all journeyed with
mushrooms together and their
interpersonal relationships they told me
you know there's no reason for us ever
to get mad at each other I just thought
that was really powerful Wow yeah that
is powerful
that sounds inconceivable to someone
who's never experienced psychedelics but
someone who has you go yeah I see how
you could get there don't make mountains
out of molehills yeah you know you can
disagree without being angry and you can
be civil about it yes well that's unless
in the world could use right now I think
this is in many ways the antidote for
some of the problems that we're seeing
with social media one of the problems we
see with social media is this disconnect
from the human experience disconnect
from communication person-to-person
communication and this anger and vitriol
and look at hate and Heidi behind screen
yes you know you're Joe Rogan I'm Paul
Stamets
yeah well who are these people hide
behind screen names through just and a
great TED talk which I did not
understand and the TED talk was
fantastic talking about why trolls do
the things that they do they do it
because they get excitement sure the
idea is just to disturb the fabric and
the more disturbance they get that is a
measure of their success yes and
provoking a response even if I'm not
wedded to it I just want to be able to
cause a ripple in the pond
yeah and they don't feel significant so
they want to do something that they can
get some sort of reaction they have a
rock they see a window they want to
throw it it's it's a natural inclination
but it's stupid it's barbaric it's fun
but it's at least a fucking time you
know and some people celebrated I'm like
okay celebrate it you're not doing shit
you're not doing shit for yourself
you're not doing shit for other people
you're not improving
whatever your art is whatever your
whatever whatever it is that you you try
to do in this life to leave your mark or
to contributor to be creative you're not
doing that if you're trolling it's not
all troller should eat mushrooms yes
well all Angry people should be
mushrooms doesn't that's true I really
agree with that well you know there is
good evidence that lion's mane also
compensates in many of these neurogenic
benefits that's all stuff all the time
this is like a lion's mane elixir that I
pour it tell me if that shit's any good
well it comes from China and was that
bad every Chinese expert I've met they
said I wouldn't dare buy a mushroom from
China rice
so this is we have a spoon a bull lion's
mane which got and I put that in
smoothies all the time and that's my
go-to and that's what exactly the
research I put it in coffee yeah I put
in coffee and Jamie do you pull up that
how much it put in neurogenesis benefits
of lion's mane how much do I put in
who's open no I put about a teaspoon and
it's stirred in but the the neuro is
good and the neurogenesis the this
company in France that we did the
neurogenic tests with found out that my
psyllium was far more active than the
mushroom foot bodies and so the lion's
mane stimulates neuro and basically
extends the nerves from from from
growing compared to baseline yeah so in
seven to twelve days of substantial up
to 22 percent increase in neural
outgrowth what we found was actually
there's one who was at 8% one was at 12%
and then
separately we stack that with an
analogue of psilocybin and rather than
could be the arithmetic arithmetic
additive of cumulative we found the
synergy so we think that lion's mane the
resources shown increases my Erland
regeneration on the sheath of the nerves
and this all cyber it's nerve tip growth
so it should conceivably help you learn
this is so this is an example this is
unexpected result
this is lines named mycelium that's
showing a 14 you know basically 14.8%
over a baseline then we have a
psilocybin analog that didn't do all
that great which analog is this again
this is a I'm gonna scribe the analog
for now okay for obvious reasons but
it's a legal analog it creates a 7%
outgrowth of neurites
but then we stocked it with lion's mane
and and these also have an analogue
there's a theoretical additive effect
1:14 plus 107 1:22 but we got 136
statistically significant the outlier
actually is even higher so the learner
and the neuroscientists in France that
did this study was extremely excited and
we found that and the more we titrated
it to greater dilution the more active
it becomes what's that mean well what I
trait was it but maybe we're diluting it
and it is our human cells for potent
stem cells and what we found was
originally we were told is it's called 3
micrograms per milligram or 3 micrograms
a millionth of a gram but when we went
back to 2.03 100 times less the
neurogenic benefits became greater now
there's something called the PK
conversion the the pharmacokinetics when
you ingest something only a small
portion of it may make it into your
bloodstream so but the good news is is
that these things are so non-toxic and
they're so potent now looking at the
dosing regimen it appears so far we
haven't done this clinically this is
human cells in
but this laboratory is predictive of
neurogenic compounds that these Punk the
neurogenic benefits are so substantial
that the peak a conversion of ingesting
them can be seen in the bloodstream as a
fairly good conversion rate so you for
instance if you take vanilla cassidy
vanilla about two percent will make it
into your bloodstream so if you take a 1
whole gram of vanilla only 2% actually
gets in your blood scream so that that's
the peak a conversion so what we're
seeing is right now is the potency of
this is so strong at lower and lower
delusions we're getting more and more
potency so i'm this is yeah it's a it's
i like to say dilution is a solution to
profitability
the more that we dilute the more potent
it becomes so this why the
neuroscientists in France are doing a
study going this stuff is so potent
please dilute it diluted diluted so low
and so we're we see this as a tremendous
horizon that Lions Mane's legal it's an
edible in choice mushroom thousand-year
history of use
I found that my psyllium is far more
potent than the mushrooms for really
good reasons the the comp some that
compounds are called RNA scenes and
these are actually discovered by
kawanishi
in 1994 looking for an antibacterial
agent and so when they when he was
looking at the mycelium fighting
bacteria he found that the mycelium
expressed this antibacterial scythe and
derivative and he gave the name Aaron a
scene after her ischium erinaceus just
like penicillin is named after
Penicillium and so he'd stumbled on the
fact that it has neurogenic properties
and antibacterial properties so the
mycelium is navigating through the
ground through a hostile environment
it's only one cell wall thick it the
mycelium has an immune system that's
operational between 40 degrees
Fahrenheit and 95 degrees Fahrenheit you
know 35 degrees Celsius that's that's
that's the window is growing in so it's
immune systems operative in that window
when you do super hot water extracts
you're in the
DreamZone that's not part of the
illogical lifespan of the mushroom your
decocting it you're taking out
ingredients but you're not harnessing
within the me illogical window of
temperatures that the mycelium has
evolved to fight off pathogens and so
what we have found is the mycelium is
far more active than the fruit bodies
this is all new science but then
mushroom references comm is populated
with dozens upon dozens of peer-reviewed
articles showing the mycelium as far
more active than the fruit bodies and a
whole genome sequencing of reishi for
instance founds 25 more 25% more genes
coding for proteins are expressed at the
mycelial state than at the mushroom
State well it makes sense because the
mushrooms at the end of millions of cell
divisions there were months years even
decades finally produce a mushroom that
rots in five days the mushroom doesn't
need a good immune system is attracting
Michael Voris animals deer
you know John just showed me some
photographs of he's gonna show you if he
was in a campground and found deer in
the morning digging up mushrooms out of
the ground while animals engage
mushrooms your your colleagues here or
maybe it's Jeff I'm sorry Jeff okay so
buddy idea but many of mushrooms attract
insects people animals because they're
fragrant there are protein there are
nutritionally dense and they want to
engage humans the mycelium is navigating
through a microbial hostile environment
and report came out in the literature of
a thousand species of bacteria in a
single gram there's more than eight
miles of mycelium in a simple cubic inch
so the mycelium is navigating through a
hostile microbial environment is setting
up guilds and micro biomes and
collections of cooperating bacteria that
can help them defend against pathogens
look at that estimated up to eight miles
of mycelium in a single inch of soil and
it's only one cell wall thick that's
such a weird looking image so it's so
hard to see what that is that's a
mushroom that's melted back into the
ground its mycelium that's just now the
mushrooms generated mycelium and it goes
underneath the ground so every time
you're walking on the ground you're
walking up on my
upon miles of mycelium and it knows that
you're there these are sensitive these
are not only externalized stomachs that
are digesting nutrients and externalized
lungs exhaling carbon dioxide inhaling
oxygen but I believe these are extant
neurological networks of nature when you
see that pervasiveness of those cells
and the climate change scientists are
coming around to this seventy percent of
the carbon biologically stored in
mycelium in the ground the way to fight
climate change there's not only
replanting trees which is great I love
it
but it's the mycelial networks you're
building in the humans that creates the
soil that creates the biodiversity that
then guarantees the health of the
ecosystem so as that mycelial networks
that govern because they're so pervasive
they set up because they're
antibacterial properties there are pro
bacterial properties another example of
this is in the microbiome of soils and
inside humans stomachs turkey tail
mushrooms and a placebo controlled
random a randomized clinical study with
humans from the Sun scientists
associated with Harvard they found that
turkey tail mycelium is a prebiotic the
microbiome that feeds Bifidobacterium
liked lactobacillus and suppresses
Clostridium which is an inflammatory
bacterium so it's really really
interesting that the mycelium is feeding
nutrients to the beneficial bacteria
within the microbiome that then gives us
health and so it's these are precursor
nutrients that elevate the populations
of beneficial bacteria so the two go
hand-in-hand but what about edible
mushrooms things like shiitake and those
type of mushrooms is there any
nutritional benefit to those things like
enormous nutritional benefit and there's
been - also meta studies have come out
this year showing that the ingestion of
of mushrooms with elderly people over
the age of 60 there's a 50% decrease
odds of Alzheimer's like symptoms
without population and people consuming
3 much
meals per week now they didn't specify
the mushrooms is not a single pour but
the mushrooms that are commonly eating
our oyster mushrooms shiitake and
shimeji I made and maybe some of some of
their mushrooms but that's that's once a
meta study that came out there was a
study out of Japan from doctor Ichikawa
at the National Cancer Center that found
statistically significant reduction in
cancers across the board I think one
hundred and sixty two thousand people in
this data set and he was sent over the
Nagano Prefecture to look for this and
these are edible and delicious mushrooms
also they empower the immune system is
again signal from the noise
statistically significant reduction
overall cancer rates associated with a
food they division now between you know
foods and medicines is blurred and yet
it speaks Hippocrates you know in
deities standing that let food be thy
medicine and medicine be thy food so
it's interesting because physicians have
been taught you know this sort of
monomolecular approach to medicine and
now we were realizing that these foods
are essential nutrients for your immune
system that that down regulates
inflammation and so interesting that
we're learning all this during our
lifetime to you'd think that would all
be established by now well I'm glad you
asked that we have a paper coming out
and next two or three days maybe in the
next week and this on Turkey Tail
mycelium they've grown on rice and we
were able to find out something that no
one had really reported in literature
the traditional Chinese medicine
approaches that these are you know
modulators they help the immune system
but they also not inflammatory when you
have an immune response oftentimes
associated with an inflammatory response
blood rushes to the wound you inflame
you have all these these compounds that
are being produced by the blood to
suppress infection but you can over amp
the immune system and have an implant a
pro flam Ettore response that can cause
a lot exudative stress damage and ik
laterally and so the article that is
just coming out with BMC biomed central
alternative in a complement
peer-reviewed we have found that the
mycelium when it grows on rice bio firm
rice to then produce a unique geological
response that up-regulates was called
interleukin-1 ra and interleukin-10
these are anti-inflammatory cytokines
and so the mycelium doesn't do that
the mushrooms do and do that but the
mycelium is bio fermented the rice like
tempeh is is transformed or like yogurt
comes from milk because of lactobacillus
acidophilus and that transformation then
makes a novel product we found the same
thing that the the rice compared to the
rice control has no anti-inflammatory
properties the mycelium because the
extracellular metabolites changes the
rice into a unique illogical product
that excites the expression of anti
inflammatory compounds while also
exciting the pro immune response so it's
a buffered response it's interesting too
that you're bringing this up that it's
growing on something else and that that
seems to be part of nature right this
sort of symbiotic relationship that some
of these mushrooms have with the plants
and the the environment around them
that's a really really good point
because the mycelium will be found with
the bees when we grew the mycelium on
rice compared to on birch wood the
mycelium brown rice reduced the viruses
you know 10 plus the ten to one the
mycelium we grew it on birch reduce the
viruses up to a thousand to one so
that's a natural environment that that
that speaks the fact that there there
appears to be something that's coding
within the ecosystem that then excites
the mycelium to produce something that
is more strongly result in the antiviral
activity that's the case with cordyceps
as well right cordyceps mushrooms grow
on other things
yeah but the course of the mushrooms
when they grow on the worms this is
something that was a big subject of
debate because because quarter sepsis is
a it's it's it's a a mushroom that grows
on a worm basically
and that and in the Himalayas I also are
in China in the Far East and people were
finding these quarter steps mushrooms
and they were cloning them and then they
got the culture going and then they
analyzed the culture and they got what's
called an Animorph it's not that
complicated it's just two faces of the
same coin there's a mushroom fruit body
and then there's this imperfect form
that is a different looking organism but
they're actually the same they have two
different expressions when they all the
scientific literature kept on coming up
with different Animorphs and so they all
had all this competition the scientific
literature what is the true Animorph of
cordyceps sinensis
well now it's called Avio cordyceps
sinensis they redefined it's called
sensu stricto and when they analyzed
them the mushrooms not until recently
discovered that another fun of fungi are
chasing the cordyceps sinensis as the
fruit body develops other fungi are
chasing right behind the other fungus so
he have multiple fungi that are actually
present in the quarter SEPs worm it's
not just one species it's multiple
species that are are co-occurring
chasing each other in the inside the the
cordyceps mushroom as is fruits so again
it just speaks to the complexity of
nature so so what where should you get
your cordyceps source and for health
benefits you know that's a really good
question quarter sips militarists does
not have these issues that quarter
substances does the problem is cordyceps
sinensis thousands of articles have been
published really which one they are
talking about it's like it's all mixed
up now what is what a true animal for
these scientists using mmm there one's
called Basilio my sees you know there's
other other ones that her her see Telus
announced this is now thought to be the
true in a more four quarter substances
well this lingo means is basically
there's a mushroom with a whole bunch of
other fungi that are associated with it
and when they cultured these other fungi
they did clinical studies or research
studies and they came up with results
the problem is that they've mixed it up
into four or five different species and
you can't sort of D a disambiguate the
data now because it's too complicated so
it's a really good question
the course EPS militarists does not have
these issues and so I would steer people
to cordyceps military right now because
the course Epson insists the Osseo
quarter substances issues are still
complicated and now virtually thousands
of research articles are an all now
suspect because no one has a foggiest
idea what animal wharf they were using
oh wow so it speaks to the complexity of
the system so and how many people are
actually working on this data - of
thousands of researchers and and I'm
thankful that the Chinese mycologist
sort of were the ones who finally sorted
this out mmm there was a lot of conflict
academically there's a lot of big egos
in academia
mmm people get wedded to their own
research you know we're all like that
and and the challenges went back and
forth and fortunately a group of Chinese
scientists finally were able to narrow
down their argument to understand that
everyone was actually doing good culture
work they were actually expert
mycologist taking the right tissue
taking it from the right cordyceps
mushroom it's just that at that time
then a different fungus that was
naturally part of the inside of the
mushroom that was a mixture of fungi
that were racing at different paces up
the mushroom well the Chinese were the
first to use it for a performance
benefit right well they were the first
to at least be publicized to use it in
the Olympics they were using cordyceps
mushrooms that was one of the reasons
why don it we developed shroom tech
sport which is cordyceps mushroom based
supplement which I love cordyceps for
workouts for a pre-workout it's like it
gives you an extra gear it's really kind
of crazy how effective it is especially
in combination with b12 and other
adaptogens it just has it's a great
pre-workout supplement because it
doesn't get you jittery at all it's not
a stimulant but you have like a little
more juice when you exercise and that's
one of the things that those
high-altitude hurting populations have
found right that's exactly right
it's likely to be a vasodilator and it
has steroidal like benefits as well so
yeah the quarter sets were for athletes
has been tried and true and many of
these Animorphs that I mentioned
those properties so for athlete it's
like what dose would you recommend like
well I'm not a medical doctor so when
people ask me recommendations I know
that the common usage of these in the
order of two grams you know there are
usually 500 millimetre milligram
capsules there's lots of good companies
that are producing this you know I would
just make sure it's mycelial based it's
not fruit body based the the clear
evidence is showing the the problem one
find out whether something's my Cecilia
Baker sister Clara we say mushroom
mycelium on all of our labels so and if
you were gonna take that like if you
want to take shroom to export if you
wanted to make your own concoction you
would recommend 2 grams and then and
make sure you had no the chain of
custody of where it came from
mm-hmm because a lot of these companies
buy in the spot market what company is
this you gave me most defenses defense
is this yours yes your company oh okay
we'll support you host defense and
there's our website where someone can
grab this yeah fungi calm or host host
defense calm and do you sell cordyceps
as well yes we do and do you take this
stuff before you exercise do you take
absolute assets yeah I take quarter
steps I take lion's mane and seven
species blend in particular seven
species lends what's in that stuff its
stem at seven it's got a scotch agha
it's got reishi as a gerakan it's got a
birch polypore called bit the poorest
bunch of - and so it has maitake in it
and these are the seven species blend
but the the evidence for physicians and
people who want to look at peer-reviewed
articles
the single species have the most
elaborated and convincing evidence when
you start compounding these so what
we're doing if we have five or six
full-time researchers several PhDs and
our staff we are again trying to
disambiguate the complexity of all these
benefits by looking at one species out
of time so we're doing this methodically
spending hundreds of thousands of
dollars literally a year now I have a
hundred and ten employees and I created
my company in order to do research
I have no partners so I can now dedicate
the resources to be able to do novel
research and we love one up against
conventional wisdom because you have to
challenge conventional wisdom to see if
it's indeed meets the muster for
instance beta-glucans how big is a
bamboo can ten thousand dollars a
million government no idea what any of
those words just said were baited
weekends there are big polymers of
sugars okay and so the big myth out
there is beta glucans are the the golden
compound that used to standardize
products - but there is not a certified
method for beta glucan analysis we have
an article coming out also on a 17
species plan using the same it's called
the mega zoom test the same magazine
test with one was going same exact test
- the same as samples one sample got
less than 1% and the other sample got
more than 30% you that that is a
disparate range of data that does not
give you any confidence and so the beta
glucan method how big is the beta
glucans well the basically has that are
giant scaffolding it's like the
structure of this building and and
inside that scaffolding as all these
other compounds that are adornments that
are that are embedded in this giant
scaffolding and so we did a clinical
study with turkey tail mushrooms and
breast cancer that was published in a
peer-reviewed journal and the scientists
that I work with can quail at Al the 19
2016 I think published an article where
they used lip paisas which is an enzyme
that dissolves lipids because I was
arguing the beta glucans are huge
scaffolding these other components
inside the beta glucans that are amina
logically active you know and they they
had been read in literature all
predominantly a beta glucans i said well
let's do an experiment and they did they
took the ball and ran with it
and then they put this this fat
dissolving enzyme lipase 'iz and they
strip the lipids the fats from the beta
glucan scaffolding
and then they took that product without
the lipids and reduced immune response
by 83% thus proving that the lipids that
were inside the beta glucans we're
pharmacological happened now then why
that's important as we do hot water
extracts you don't get fats you know
fast is not miscible in water and so
that's why fat separates so having these
fats and we're made of fat cholesterol
is good for you fats are good for you
wait what are you saying that whether
you're a paleo guy right so you know
this you know from the fats or yeah I
don't I don't like that word paleo I
think it's it's a little inaccurate like
what people ate during the Paleolithic I
like calling it primordial yeah that's a
good one primal you know some people
call it the primal primal diet yeah but
this is speaks to the fact that the
every mushroom species is like a
miniature pharmaceutical factory and
what makes a species is the accumulation
of those compounds that are different
mixtures there's around 1.5 million
species of fungi a hundred and fifty
thousand species are mushroom forming
fungi we've identified around fifteen
thousand species of this 15 thousand
species we have about 20 to 40 species
that we know are beneficial for human
health well that's a pretty good
selection criteria but going from 14,000
identified species are potentially
150,000 out there we haven't identified
most of them but our ancestors through
trial and error have narrowed the field
of candidates down to about 20 to 40
species that we know because of their
molecular arrangements and complexity
benefit human health
now it's when people pick mushrooms and
they go out and pick mushrooms the real
issue seems to be that there's some
mushrooms that are edible that look very
close to mushrooms very similar to
mushrooms that are very poisonous true
to the uninitiated and the people who
have not learned but when you learn the
chantrelle you will not mistake it
nothing looks like a lion's mane
mushroom once you learn lion's mane
mushroom it's hard to mistake it so
there are some look-alikes and with the
Amanita phalloides
the destroying
angel and with a paddy straw mushroom
which is commonly cultivated and
collected in Asia many of the mushroom
deaths in North America have come from
not displaced but people's but people
who've come from Asia and because
they're secretive in the language
barrier and the culture of being wild
collectors they then mistake the
destroying angel for a paddy straw
mushroom that's a real common mistake
there are other people who said they
just looked edible that's a really
dangerous thing to say you have to know
species individually right there's a
there's edible species of Amanita and
there's poisonous ones hmm there's
deadly poisonous ones
Amanita seems to have a lot of
controversy as far as its efficacy far
as like its psychedelic efficacy what's
that that I don't know anybody that's
ever really tripped off of it
muscaria is yeah oh man do I have a
story please oh my god because everybody
that I know like and that was something
that McKenna talked about as well
terrence talked about while he was alive
they said that it seems that it's
genetically variable seasonally variable
perhaps even environmentally variable
all those things are partially true I've
eaten mg muscaria four or five times
ma'am miss Kerry is the red mushroom
with the white dots near tail mushroom
is a perfectly legal Santa Paws mushroom
it contains a muslima muscarine and EBU
tannic acid actually very limited small
amounts of Musk run but the muscarinic
symptoms cause salivation and sweating
and I tripped with my friend on on em
you know mascara and and I looked at him
and he was foaming at the mouth and I
had all these bubbles coming out of his
mouth man dude you look like ya rabies
he goes you should see what you look
like so but then emmeline muscaria I've
eaten that a few times and people do
boil it in water throw away the water
twice and they can make it into a edible
mushroom but it's not that great of an
edible but there's another mushroom
called a Madea Panther arena now Panther
arena is a kick-ass mushroom it has five
times or more the amounts of moose
Somali botanic acid almost no mus Curran
so the salivation effect on any mascara
so I have a had a very good friend we
are not friends anymore unfortunately
but I was in charge of the herbarium at
the Evergreen State College and I
freestride em that a panther me know
they're called panther cops they're
brown in color and they have dots very
good the panther cut perfectly legal
mushroom an extraordinarily powerful so
I was up living up in Darrington
Washington at his cabin I was a logger
hippie for a few years and so my friend
Dave came up and I had these fries fried
mushrooms from the herbarium and I said
let's go ahead and eat these and I had
read in the literature and almost no one
had eaten them so I made an omelet and I
and we cooked it up and he was much
lighter than me so I thought well I
should have 2/3 of the omelet right
because he's lighter than me and so we
ate the mushrooms around 10 o'clock and
um we're living in this cabin but across
the creek was a scar square Creek
Campground and it was the what we call
the Winnebago people right back then in
the 70s I hitchhiked across country 13
times never Winnebago never picked me up
so they were always in the enemy and so
we were long-haired hippies you know we
date these mushrooms and we thought for
entertainment let's go look at the
Winnebago people so we it was so close I
don't know why we drove our car but we
drove the car out of my cabin
we went down like a half a mile and we
turned left into the Squire creek
campground and a static we parked the
car and we wanted to go up to a
beautiful view spot and so we walked
through the Winnebago people and our
families and everything else and and we
get up onto a ridge and I thought this
is a great view spot but we're waiting
like an hour no effect you know and I
was long the Dames oh wow maybe these
aren't that potent and then right after
we said that I looked out Dave and I
said David do you see that oh yeah and
we waited a few more seconds then
this big distortion field we had a
beautiful view of the volcanoes and the
valleys a big view scape but we could
see the air we've had to become consider
this liquid and then it started coming
on stronger and stronger and stronger oh
my oh my god
this is getting intense we better get
the heck out of here go go home where
it's safe because this is coming on so
strong so we come down off this little
this little plateau and we had to come
down through the Winnebago people and
then oh my god
and here we're walking a thing about am
adidas and mascara and pants arena you
have doll yellows and browns but you
feel like this giant and you're moving a
slow motion every step you're taking you
know you feel like this giant Bay moving
really slow and and then I came to
Winnebagos of no end there were hundreds
of feet long
I'm find a water passes but obey go and
like when is this Winnebago when I end I
keep on walking further and further and
then oh my god and so then we're really
just really really high it was
ridiculous and I had a really flex
camera and we came up to a car and so
for some friggin reason I locked the car
and so I had my key I looked at my key
and I look at the lock I went missed oh
shit okay pull the key back missed but
Dave goes are you okay I go I'm fine
because you want me to drive and I go no
way dude if I'm gonna slide there's no
way I want you to drive right and so I
then over and over again then magically
just for a repetition it just made it
into the lock so I unlock the door and I
get into the car and I dropped my camera
and then I'm in the car and I'm trying
to get my key and I thank God I didn't
get my key and I was not safe to drive
and then Dave is going like oh my god
Paul are so friggin high right now and I
go and I said well let's go home I said
I dropped my camera and I went over
looked like Ron there was my camera I
picked it up and going ah Dave I dropped
my camera
drop my camera again oh ah Dave's I
brought my camera I picked up my camera
go whoa I dropped my camera I did this
over and over and over again repetitive
motion syndrome kicked in it is a very
common symptom of a Madea Panther arena
I dropped my camera dozens and dozens of
times
how'd it look at the end well it was
shattered but Dave goes Paul you should
look up and a whole bunch of people from
the Winnebago family community have
lined up holding their children in close
proximity watching this repetitive
motion syndrome where I'm just
constantly picking my camera so they're
watching you for entertainment where you
went to watch them after entertainment
and now they're freaking out because I
have this repetitive motion syndrome and
I take one step drop my camera why Dave
I dropped my camera and I pick up my
camera again I know that I just dropped
my camera whoa dropped my camera again
now this speaks to the berserkers and
the berserkers the word berserk came for
the berserkers and in Scandinavia where
the legend has it that there were these
these the Scandinavians the Vikings were
surrounded and outnumbered and there
were going to be killed the next day
and they ate a whole bunch of em needed
mascara and a big big soup and legend
has it it's not been confirmed but this
is the legend this very commonly
reiterated is that they drank a whole
bunch and muscaria soup and then they
went and the next day even though they
were massively outnumbered they took off
all their clothes and they attack the
enemy naked the swords and that's where
the word berserk came from the
berserkers so I'm having this Berserker
experience a repetitive motion syndrome
and I dropped my camera over and over
and over again and and I looked up and
the parents were holding their children
totally freaking out you know I said we
gotta get out of here so we left the
doors open in the car and I'm taking one
or two steps dropping my camera picking
it up dropping my camera we finally made
a pact he disappeared I didn't know if
the Dave you're on your own on dude I
have enough to worry about no I made it
back to my cabin and I get from my cabin
and there's a combination lock oh no I
don't need a combination lock right now
I can't barely you know it's I'm
spinning lock back and forth
spending backlight and then eventually
the lock just spontaneously opened and
and then I fell on the ground and I
started convulsing and the cool thing
about convulsing was it felt good every
time I convulsed I actually went I feel
so good so it convulsed some more and I
was just convulsing constantly like
epileptic conducted convulsions very
very intense but they felt good this is
the weird thing about it I needed to
convulse because every time I convulse I
kind of got a reset of my neurology you
know I'm a baseline and then I would
spin out of control
and then I had this cascade of ice
didn't ice Tinian thoughts I got oh my
god I can save the world I know how to
do this and they don't have a
prepositional or in verb real phrase and
just before I came to the object of my
thought that was Einstein II and insight
how to have a tangent and then I come to
the course at the end of that sentence
and then I have another tangent I saw
death as if as a perpetual series of
alternatives that never gave me the
satisfaction of a conclusive thought and
I was just lasted for about 12 hours you
know I fainted I went into a coma like
state so you recommend it and the
biggest concern beside the repetitive
motion syndrome is hypothermia because
if you're out in the woods or something
and you're exposed you're not getting up
so you're you going it's called soma for
a reason it's the soma mushroom is some
differences that what's ohm is this
isn't there some debate as to what so
actually is that's what our Gordon
Wasson proposed some magnetic literature
there's a big debate about that but the
other story I'd like to tell is my
friend dr. Andrew Weil was that the
Cougar hot springs and and Oregon and
Andy's a medical doctor from Harvard and
he was walking the trail and people came
running down to oh my god this guy's
trying to kill himself I come up and
Andy went up and this guy had eaten a
whole bunch Amanita muscaria big biker
dude and it's covered with blood and he
was up on a bridge and he was swinging
his legs back and forth is above the
rocks they threw himself off the bridge
now it was only about six or eight feet
but it's enough on the boulders down
below
smashed himself on the rocks and then he
climbed back up on the bridge and they
swung his feet and threw himself off the
bridge so this this causes repetitive
motion syndrome both of my camera
accepts is a mushroom that's perfectly
legal it's probably one of the most
dangerous mushrooms that anyone could
eat I definitely advise not doing this
because I always thought if I was ever
called as expert witness having these
experiences and someone who was watching
Tales from the Crypt on TV and then they
saw a knife it causes temporary insanity
really I mean it's suicide mushrooms are
wonderful they're peaceful they're
loving as an empathic oh right
but the Amanita mushrooms cause this
strange strange sort of behavior that is
really potentially dangerous and that is
the mushroom that was documented in the
sacred mushroom in the cross where
gianmarco allegro alleged that he
alleged that the entire Christian
religion was essentially a
misunderstanding and it was really all
about the consumption of the psychedelic
mushrooms and fertility rituals and that
these were all sort of captured in
stories details and parables yeah it was
academic suicide for him now with that
statement and still very controversial
have you read the his work yes I have
what do you think
well linguistically the guy's way over
my head when I read his book it's all
about linguistics and one of the
translators of the Dead Sea Scrolls way
beyond my Ken of knowledge it's so far
beyond my kind of knowledge I can't make
rhyme or reason out of it that seems to
be the problem with it most people can't
yeah so but and there's threads of truth
in all of this but I don't buy it
you know on its face on the the
grandiose conclusion that he made but
clearly mushrooms have inspired religion
yes and I teach these workshops on
gourmet and medicinal mushrooms and at
one of these workshops is very spiritual
guy he's very quiet but very definitely
you know walk just looked like the real
deal he waited until everyone was gone
and then he said Paul I'd been sent here
I said really it says I'm a devout
Christian I'm in Billy Graham's inner
circle and a bunch of us take psilocybin
mushrooms as sacraments and it's brought
us it's brought us closer to Jesus
closer to our religion now I don't care
if you're Muslim or Christian or Hindu
the idea of these mushrooms making you
feel this the spiritual universe more
spiritually connected giving your
cultural heritage in your reference
points but he said these are extremely
important now my mother was a
charismatic Christian I met some people
in her group who came to their religious
beliefs through psychedelics don't
dislike it looks now but that's was
their portal they had their big
revelation through psychedelics so the
the connection between soul Simon and
magic mushrooms in religion I think has
a lot of credibility and there's lots of
great examples of that the specificity
of some of the arguments people make I
have great great doubts about hmm
that's interesting um what about in the
ancient Hindu religions the ancient
Hinduism and some of the ancient books
speak of various sacraments that have
sort of never been defined right yeah
and why is that Brahmin cows are sacred
you know when this Lhasa P cubensis
grows out of cow poop Ron in India and
yet they won't eat cows and Buddha
supposedly died from a mushroom he was
and he was given a mushroom by a peasant
and and Justin the mushroom and died you
know that and so there is that
connection I've always thought curious
that the Salah speak Avensis is such a
religious provoking mushroom and yet
cows are highly revered as being sacred
oh I would think you would keep the
mother of the mushroom sacred you know
you want to protect the resource but
again these are at times when when
fables and parables and and religious
rites were controlled by the cognoscenti
and they were the gatekeepers of
knowledge that was too powerful for the
general population to understand or
and so they protected that knowledge and
that's that's a rule of most religions
is that the the inner circle
you know holds the keys of the kingdom
and what's happened with Orthodox
religions as they create institutions
where you have to pay tithing in order
to have a gatekeeper just to have a
contact with God and that I think is is
the problem with monotheism versus
polytheism Jack Herer before he died was
working on a book about psychedelic
drugs specifically mushrooms and and
religious experiences and he had some
really crazy old paintings that he had
found that showed people that were naked
seemingly dancing in ecstasy with a
translucent mushroom around them and the
idea being that this was supposed to
this this image was supposed to
represent someone who is tripping
there's a lot of really interesting
books that have been published that show
art you know going back hundreds of
years even you know into the into the
late 1300s showing you know Christian
art where mushrooms are are pretty
easily seen so there's there's a lot of
history to that but but it becomes the
unfathomable I mean maybe you can
imagine it to be true but how can you
prove it to be right how can you so a
lot of that is like it's great
historical information probably a lot of
it's true hard to say which is which is
true and which is not somebody simple
right yeah but in modern times now Johns
Hopkins
these clinical studies are on missus
isms spirituality showing that these are
some of the most spiritually significant
experiences of people's lives the
interesting thing about the Johns
Hopkins studies is that 70 percent that
people had positive experiences and 14
months later they still described as
experiences being significantly positive
their friends their colleagues their
fellow workers also say that materially
changed these people's personality but
the 30 dependent people had negative
experiences the negativity of the
experience did not extend more than the
experience itself so this is speaks to
read
numbering and what's been determined is
when you have these really profound
spiritual experiences it's it's with you
and when you remember it you rekindle
that thought and this may be a way of
overlaying PTSD rather than having the
reference standard that's associated
with PTSD you supplanted or the positive
experience but the people who had Native
experiences during tripping did not have
a negative that negative consequences
didn't extend more than the experience
itself so this was this is our profound
insight and so john hopkins roland
griffiths just emailed me recently they
have other clinical studies that are
ongoing looking and one we just got
published on meditators given placebos
versus getting high doses of psilocybin
and and then measuring the consequences
of those experiences months or a year or
two later and again the same thing as
reinforced these psilocybin mushroom
experiences create a positive reference
point that you can capitalize on by re
remembering them subsequent from this
experience by not even having to take
the mushrooms again hmm that is profound
when you have a happy memory that you
can anchor your personality on it's a
game changer yeah I just wonder if we're
ever gonna see in our lifetime centers
where you can go and a trained
professional can guide you through
something like this happening now is it
yes the California Institute of
Integrative studies and based in San
Francisco are those training therapists
and Canada there are therapists in
Europe they're therapists there are
training programs now on psychedelic
therapy this is something that is it has
a tremendous momentum indigenous peoples
have a really nice structure or many of
them do not all but many have a really
good structure for the responsible use
of these substances us there are
displaced people's I would call us
European based people and many other
people are displaced we don't have the
same constructs historically that we can
operate within and so the psychedelic
therapist movement is huge right now
Canada is leading the way the canoe
government is very very positive towards
psychedelic therapy because the opioid
crisis and because significant results
is in the movie this has come out called
dosed and attracts a heroin addict young
lady and Vancouver
it is a heroic movie it is not one of
these you kind of feel good at the end
of the movie but it is that it is yeah
it is intense and she's doing iboga and
she also does high doses of mushrooms
but the opioid crisis is so pervasive
they're so poor treatments available
that through the psychedelic therapies
and several days they're seeing a
tremendous success and people breaking
you know decades-long opioid addiction
within a week and so the psychedelic
therapist are integral to that success
and so there are there are clinics now
arising all over the world for this at
Portugal in Mexico in Spain in Jamaica
the clinics are arising specifically to
meet the needs of people who are trying
to get these legally so they don't get
in trouble too long and so in Portugal
and Spain and Jamaica for instance that
these are legal but many of these
substances are well what gives me a lot
of hope is that everything seems to be
trending in a positive direction like
all these things you're saying your own
personal experiences from Ted from 2008
versus 2019 all these different
treatment patterns or pathways that are
available now the people that were never
before and that we're starting to see an
acceptance overall just the general
population people understand what this
is and that this might literally be the
cure to what ails us I you know for
people out there who have not gone on a
deep Sullivan experience this is very
important for me to emphasize and after
you do of a heroic journey of a soul
Simon the next day when you look at
those mushrooms you say no way dude I'm
not touching those long time give me six
months I'll come back to them they're
anti addictive by their nature because
it's so powerful so powerful profound
and you
gone through the gauntlet and back yeah
you're not ready to do it again and so
how many drugs that can have such a
dramatic impact that are non addictive
that can break addictive cycles with
other drugs I think this is a gateway a
gateway opportunity for solving many of
the ills of our society I couldn't agree
more
anything else for get out of yeah no I
just want to thank you and your audience
for having the courage to bring these
subjects to the table in a coherent
fashion we don't have all the answers we
will make mistakes I think it's really
important that we take where the adults
in the room we see somebody spinning off
the rails
rather than being judgemental go up and
put your arm around them saying hey
there's better benefits from this I
fully understand why people want to
party with them especially when they
were younger they going the
coming-of-age but as you mature these
are really important for your own sanity
and for the health of your community and
your family psilocybin mushrooms make
nicer people I think that's a great way
to say it and I agree and I think it
should be on a t-shirt maybe a bumper
sticker and I want to thank you man
without your knowledge and information
and the way you're able to so eloquently
express all these ideas a lot of people
would know a whole lot less so it's a
team effort it's just not me as a whole
as a whole isn't uprising instead of
mycelial underground that's reaching up
and telling people and sharing it with
their friends so
check out the movie fantastic fungi it's
really good and dosed to good movies
that speaks to this and your website
once again fungi calm fungi calm Paul
Stamets ladies and gentlemen thank you
Paul all right thank you brother
by
[Music]
[Applause]